# Rhee Syngman

Affiliation: National Alliance for the Rapid Realization of Korean Independence

![Rhee Syngman](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:FilePath/Rhee_Syng-Man_in_1948.jpg)

Syngman Rhee was born in 1875 into a kingdom already in collapse. He grew up
watching the Kapsin Coup burn out in days, the Gabo Reforms imposed by foreign
bayonets, the Independence Club crushed by a dynasty too feeble to save itself.
He threw himself into the cause anyway — and for his trouble, he was arrested,
tortured, and caged. In prison he wrote The Spirit of Independence, equal parts
sermon and curse: a declaration that Korea could be free, and a vow that he
would never forgive those who yielded.

That vow defined his life. Rhee watched the men he once admired — eloquent
cultural nationalists like Yi Kwang-su, reformers who spoke of destiny and
dignity — turn collaborators the moment it was easier to bow than resist. He
had warned it would happen, and he was right. With each betrayal he shed
another layer of faith in compromise, convinced that only vigilance, strength,
and an unforgiving nationalism could protect liberty. He still dreamed of
democracy, Jeffersonian in his heart — but it was a Jacksonian democracy, one
that demanded loyalty and punished weakness.

Exile in America taught him the language of freedom but stripped away the last
illusions. He lobbied the United States for decades, and learned the truth: the
great powers do not see Korea as a nation, only as a pawn. He would never again
trust his country’s fate to the promises of others, or to the naïve dreamers
who believed those promises. And so, when he returned to a liberated Korea in
1945, and when Lyuh Woon-hyung’s provisional republic emerged in 1948, Rhee
took the presidency but found only ghosts: idealists who reminded him of 1905,
1910, every surrender and every humiliation. Neutrality, compromise, balance —
to him, these are preludes to betrayal.

To his admirers, he is the prophet who sees every knife before it strikes. To
his enemies, an authoritarian in waiting. To himself, he is the dreamer who was
right too many times, and who will never again let “idiots” ruin his country’s
destiny.
